Len:	I may take this a number of different directions. I didn't prepare a lot; it was a busy week for us because we had our annual meeting. What I did do, because I thought it would be interesting and maybe helpful to you, is I tried to think of one of my companies that I think does a really good job in their board meetings of providing an update in general across the entire business and then I think they do an especially good job of updating us on talent acquisition and how it's going. Instead of creating my own deck, I took an old deck of theirs and I'll talk a little bit about that company in a second. Maybe staying high level for a second, I'll just mention my background for a second so you understand my perspective and then I'll try and talk... say a little high level about how boards work - what we're looking for in general, how we interact with our companies - because that might be helpful and there might be some clarification there. I would like to use specific examples from the deck.
	I'll go super fast. My background. I've been in high-tech for 29 years (it makes me feel wicked old), but I was at three venture-backed software companies for 16 years. I was on the other side, grew up through product marketing and sales. First company was acquired, then I ran my second company at a young age, when I was too young to know better. Then I moved up here to Seattle and ran half of Real Networks from '96 to 2001; that's how Dave and I came to know each other. Those were very rapid growth days where we, my group, grew from 30 people to 700 in 4 years. I spent a lot of time recruiting people, we had our inside recruiters, we had outside recruiters, and so I have a lot of perspective that comes from that experience being on that side of the table and then a lot of perspective as a board member. 
The last 11-years, I've been a venture capitalist. I spent 7 years at a firm called Frasier Technology Ventures and I'm still on a couple boards for them, including one that's public called Control Four and then I joined [00:02:00] Madrona 5 years ago and I'm on five boards for Madrona, including another company that just went public about a month ago that I'll tell you about, actually 2 or 3 weeks ago, called Max Point and that's the company that I thought would be instructive to maybe talk about some of what's happening at that company.
One thing I would say generally is that... by the way, has anybody here ever been to a board meeting? A company board meeting? Okay, Dave. That, in and of itself, might be a bit of a mystery and might be worth explaining a little bit. I think the way I would start off at a high level is most boards consist of the CEO, the venture investors (us), and usually an independent director or two. The formal board business is usually a monthly or 6-week or every-quarterly meeting. That's a fairly formal meeting where the CEO will walk through an update on the entire business of the company. If it's a pre-product company the update may be mainly about how the company's doing in terms of getting the product out the door. If it's a post-product company... by the way, most of the companies we fund, when we fund them, they're not at a product yet, so our companies go from a stage where most of what they're updating us on is how the product's going that they're building. Then they shift to a mode after they ship the product, of providing a more full update on how's the business going. Customer adoption, revenue creation, that type of thing. The updates become somewhat about product, more about financial operations and then they'll provide a deeper financial update on cash position and things like that. Eventually as they scale, you'll talk about more strategic things like new businesses that you might be getting into and that type of thing. Most board decks have a pretty straightforward structure to them where you're updating on the business, revenue, net income, cash use, product progress, customer [00:04:00] progress, things like that. 
	I would say, actually, most of my companies don't do a great job of doing a deep dive on hiring. Hiring is often thought of as a... it's not the kind of thing the board usually jumps into a lot unless there's a problem. If the product's late because we're not hiring enough engineers there's going to be a lot of board screaming around, "why's the product late?" Or if we're behind in revenue because we haven't hired enough sales people, there'll be a lot of questions around that. It's often one of those things where unless the CEO flags that it's not going well, and it's not going well, and that's manifesting itself in us being behind at something, most boards aren't going to dig into a lot of detail around that. I'm not saying that's good. I'm just saying my experience, having been on, I don't know how many... 20 boards now? ...is that, most boards don't dedicate a specific amount time to just talking about talent per say. The good companies do, meaning, and I'm not just saying that because that's what you all do for a living [00:05:00], it's going to be self-serving and make you feel good about yourselves. 
Group:	[Laughter]
Female:	Already do.
Len:	The companies that I think really are all over it do a couple things that I would say most companies don't. They will do a basic level of reporting around hiring. How's our engineering team building? How's it scaling? They'll do good reporting on where they're at relative to sales hiring. The really, really good ones will go deeper than that. They'll talk about what's the overall quality of their executive team and they'll do a closed session. Another thing I should back up and talk about a little bit. Most board meetings, the whole executive team of the company is invited to the board meeting. Most VP or C-level folks. Then there's usually a closed session where only the CEO is in the room with the board members. One of the approaches that I really like is the CEO that will, on some level of frequency, [00:06:00] maybe it's every 6 months, maybe it's once a year, really do a review of their team and how they're doing and share that with the board.
	One thing you know about these companies when they grow super fast - sometimes people's jobs out-scale them. It doesn't mean that that person doesn't need to have a job at the company anymore but sometimes you need to bring in someone over the top or you need to work really closely with that executive to make sure they're continuing to scale. The really great companies, I think, do - this is a place where I think you all could help - do a great job of updating the board, not just on quantitative hiring. Are we ahead? Did we hire all the people we're supposed to hire or not and how do we feel about them? They'll also do a really good job of updating the overall quality of the executive team and also, where do they feel like there are going to be challenges ahead because someone's likely not to scale fast enough and then giving us more visibility into that ahead of time gives us a sense for where there might be risks and where we can be helpful in terms of trying to recruit because what we're trying to do as venture board members is help with recruiting, which is why we have our own team here at Madrona. Help with strategy and help with connections to customers and other partners. That's one broad thing I wanted to say. The other broad thing I wanted to say is most of the work I do with my CEOs is not in the board meeting. I think when most people hear about boards, the word itself implies that all the work's done in a board meeting, in a room like this where you meet every quarter and everything happens, then we leave for 3 months and then we show back up again and we hear how it went. Most of the work I do... I mean I was up at 6am talking to one of my CEOs this morning, Martin. I talked to Joe at 8am. A lot of it's probably a lot like your work. There's formal meetings where you do stuff and then a lot of the work is done separate from that. 
	What will often happen is, for instance, if the CEO is going to conduct a search, they will usually lean heavily on [00:08:00] the board to help to vet the candidate, if it's an executive search, and sell the candidate and maybe source the candidate. They'll ask us, "Do you know people?" Every week I probably have 3 or 4 interviews for my CEOs of companies, of executives, that are being recruited into those companies. A lot of the phone calls I have or meetings I have with my CEO's are informal. I'll get an email. Joe sent me an email today from Max Point, "Hey can you help me with this?" I think it's good for you to know that that's how we work with our companies because the word board implies it's always a super formal thing and it's often not. Maybe I'll pause for a second, is this helpful in terms of giving you a broad overview? 
Male:	Yeah, I have a question on when you were talking about having the CEO give a review of the executive team to the board. How much of that are you looking to hear already the CEO thinking about solutions to those problems that they're anticipating? Or is it just sort of a, "Heads-up, we know it's a potential problem," if they leave out the, "And we're going to solve it. We think we're going to solve it by XYZ." Is that a flag for you that they've not come with a solution at the same time as presenting the challenge or is it personal preference?
Len:	Great question, I think... I think any board topic we always like it more if the CEO flags the issue and then explains the dynamic. For instance, let's say our VP of sales, we're worried that our VP of Sales isn't scaling or wasn't the right fit or we're behind plan. This happens all the time, right? Most companies go through some period where performance, where the company's revenue performance isn't as good as it could be and so the question will always be, "why is that?" Is it the VP of Sales fault [00:10:00]? Or do we have the right VP of Sales? Something else? Product could not be right, could be mismatched or the market timing could be different than we thought or competition could be fiercer than we expected. It could be 20 reasons why revenues aren't scaling. A classic CEO reaction, especially a junior CEO, is "Oh! Must be the VP of Sales. There's gotta be something wrong with the VP of Sales."
	I really like it when the CEO takes any problem, whether it's an executive question and cases the joint. Tries to break down what's really happening here. Do we really think it's a personnel issue and what are that person's strengths and weaknesses? You guys know lots about doing reviews and 360 reviews and distinguishing between performance and skills. That's a big thing that we often ask our CEOs. If they're going to explain to us why they think an executive is or isn't performing as well, we try to differentiate between performance and skill. Sometimes someone will have a great year, but there's still a skill deficit relative to what they need to have to be a great performer. Or sometimes someone has all the right skills but they just didn't have a great year. The product didn't ship on time but they're still a great engineer. They just ran into issues and couldn't work through them or the market took longer and sales were behind. 
	I'm going to rev through this pretty quickly. MaxPoint just went public so because of that I've picked a board deck that's 5 quarters old, so you're not seeing anything in here that I can't show you. This is a company of ours, they're actually in North Carolina, which is a little off-strategy for Madrona, to have a company that far away, but they've grown very quickly so they... we funded them almost four years ago. They're in the geo-targeted advertising space. They have a big tech team, actually a lot of recruiting challenge dynamics; they're headquartered in Research Triangle Park, they have an engineering office in Austin because that's where one of their co-founders is, and they... When we funded them they had one [00:12:00] sales person in New York. Now they have 17 sales offices in the United States and one now in London and they - I should know exactly what their employee head count is but - I'm going to say they're at 350 and they were probably at 35 when we funded them four years ago. 
	They've grown revenue from $4mm the year we funded them, was late 2010, to more than a $100mm last year. They've been growing very rapidly. They filed to go public and completed that a couple weeks ago. I think these guys do a really good job, in general, of communication and especially at a board level. We meet as a board about every six weeks. This is a January board deck, so that means they would have just finished a year and often a January deck will be a little bit different than other quarters of the year because they're doing a wrap-up of what happened in 2013, in this case, and then a preview of what's going to happen in 2014. I think this is a good deck. There are a few things that I'll talk about that they don't have in here that relate to what you all do that I think would be useful to talk about as well. 
	Anyway, this is kind of a typical flow. They'll give an update of how did Q4 go, because that was the quarter that just closed (they were presenting in January). This is how most CEOs communicate. They'll do a quick high level update, you can see most of the focus initially is on revenue, how the product was working. It turns out they launched in the UK that quarter. Then this is a detailed view of their P&L, which, as most people know, revenue, all their expenses, how they did on their net income and cash usage basis. These are the things that the board is going to focus on the most. A lot of times hiring and personnel issues are going to tie into this. I would look at it and I would say, "Gee if we were behind in revenue, is that because we were behind in hiring sales people?" Or if expenses were out of control, "did we over-hire in an area?" If the product was late, "are we behind [00:14:00] in hiring in engineering?" 
	Again, a lot of the personnel-oriented questions we have, talent questions, are going to come from, "is there something that didn't go well in terms of the financial progress of the company?" Again, I'm not saying that's always the driver or the reason that the topics should come up but it usually is. Joe does a good job, I think, of presenting this dashboard which shows the hiring update for the year, actual and planned, by category, by quarter. I don't have any other companies that do this, I should make my other companies do this because it's super helpful. It's a simple model that shows us how many employees have come in at the end of 2012, how many at the end of 2013, what the planned one was, the actual was, so you can see that they actually over-hired a little bit. They were 7 ahead of plan but we'd agreed to do that, by the way, during the year. The only thing the board will be unhappy about is surprises, of any kind. 
	The CEO who over-hires ahead of plan without asking to do that - we don't like that because they're going to spend more money and use more capital and those are things we're trying to pay close attention to. But Joe has a great rhythm where about every 3 to 4 months into every year he will checkpoint with the board and usually he'll make a recommendation to increase spending typically because he's ahead of plan on revenue, which is the happy occurrence. The sad occurrence is the one where the company's behind the revenue plan for the year and they needed to ratchet back hiring and that's what, I can imagine, also can make your lives difficult because you're in the middle of searches, you're trying to get new people on-boarded and when those plans change, it makes... There's nothing less fun than starting a project and having to slow it down. Joe does a nice job of keeping the board updated on hiring. Then what he'll do is drill down [00:16:00] into different areas. 
	In this case 2013 was a really big year for ramping up their sales team. He'll talk about how many sales people there are in each region, by quarter, how many we thought we were going to hire, and how many we ended up hiring. This is all, what I would call, pretty tactical. It's less executive-driven and in this case, the big challenge for this particular year was sales hiring. In the early days it's often engineering hiring. If Bizible, one of my earlier stage companies, were here, they would be... Aaron's all about hiring that first group of 10 to 12 engineers to get his product off the ground and he's doing a great job of that. But we do spend energy in those meetings talking... One thing we don't go into as much detail on, but maybe we should, is hiring dynamics. You might often ask, "Do we have visibility into specific offers or what we're paying people or stock option levels?" Things like that. Usually what we expect our companies to do is to have a template and ranges. 
	If Joe's hiring engineers or a director of marketing, what I like to see is a table that just shows the levels in the company. C-level, VP, director, manager, individual contributor, and staff, whatever the right words are, and then, what the cash comp range and option equity range is on a percentage basis, described as a percentage of the fully diluted outstanding shares of the company. "Is our range for a director .25 percent to .75 percent for a series A company?" I like to see that model, it makes board approvals on hiring go super-streamlined. It's nice to see that at the beginning of the year. We all know what's the market looking like right now? It's [00:18:00] nice for us know, "Hey, if Aaron's going to hire six more engineers this year and engineers are currently $130k per year and .1% equity," (I'm making these numbers up - they might be close), it's nice for the board to know, "Okay, that's the overall impact this year on hiring." 
	It'll be pulled together in a more summarized way but we don't tend to go deeper than that. We don't ask, "Hey, how come you're paying that director of engineering this much and how come you're hiring that engineer?" We just like to know the hiring's in the ranges, the ranges make sense to us based frankly on the data that we - I think you all know we do this survey that probably all of you participated in where we ask you to collect data, we anonymize it, pool it together and then we'll usually take that range data, look at it relative to the community data - that we've built and say, "Hey, do those ranges feel right?" Beyond that, we don't tend to get involved in that level of decision making. We're going to approve the overall budget, the overall spend for the year, the overall number of hires, and then, frankly, it's up to the CEO to go make it... Does that make sense?
Any questions so far? 
Male:	You like to see that model at the beginning of the year?
Len:	Yeah.
Male:	Is it worth checking in halfway through to see, have we skewed off-model, is that... ?
Len:	I think doing it at the beginning of the year is great and then if there were a big variance, that would be great. If you all find... I'd love it if my CEO said, "We entered the year thinking we were going to be able to hire engineer's for $110k a year and Google and Alibaba and Facebook have bid it up to $130k and that's what we're going to have to get used to for the rest of the..." Not because it's probably going to make a massive impact for a relatively small company, but it's still nice to know. Also, it's nice to know that dynamic too, if hiring is behind. Almost every one of our companies in Seattle is wrestling with hiring great tech talent. For how many of you is hiring great engineers hard and expensive right now? [00:20:00] If someone's hand's down, then we need to go raid employee's from your company. 
Group:	[Laughter]
Male:	No, I was nodding instead of raising my hand.
Len:	Right, all of the companies face that. That's an area too where we probably should do more as a board to push our companies on what techniques and tactics are they using to get over those hurdles and that's probably a great brown bag lunch. I know our talent team's done a lot to coach our recruiting... our CEOs on how to recruit, our heads of engineering... how to recruit, but we probably can't do enough there because it's hard. You guys know.
I'm going to rifle through a couple other quick things... These are other business updates that a CEO brought up. It doesn't necessarily have anything to do with their talent but this is a specific update on how one of their businesses is going. These guys do a fun thing where they'll actually do some customer case studies, which are super fun for us too... These guys, their product helps drive customers into stores to buy products so they sell to big brands like Barilla, the guys who make noodles. 
	Anyway, they do some really cool things to give the board some visibility into not just how many new customers did they land and how much revenue did they generate, but they'll actually take some case studies and let us drop down and look at specific... Anyway, as you can tell, I'm a pretty big fan of how these guys communicate with us. These board meetings, the end of your board meetings tend to be very financially-focused. A lot of boards will take a different board meeting to drill down into something. When Max Point does a big product launch, 80% of the board meeting will be about the product and then we'll still do the customary go-through-the-financials, go-through-hiring-updates... but the main focus is on product. If they're doing a big marketing launch, the focus might be on marketing. Or we've had ones where this company... there was a period where they were really struggling with sales [00:22:00] performance. A big chunk of that meeting was about how we're building our sales team. 
	You might find this interesting because it does overlap with what you all do. They were just learning a bunch of things about what types of sales people to hire. Joe was very metric-driven. In addition to financials, he will track things like... you've probably heard of CAC ratio, which is... if not, I'm happy to describe it. CAC ratio basically is the ratio of what you spend on sales and marketing relative to the amount of revenue that you generate. It's a little more sophisticated than that, but the idea is that you, if you were spending $2 dollars on sales and marketing, in sales and marketing personnel to generate a dollar of revenue, that'd be horrible. Some companies do that until they grow into themselves. Joe does a good job with that but he also is very precise about tracking, for instance, gross revenue per rep per quarter, after the rep is productive. 
	This is a very sales-driven company, I mean, two-thirds of the employees are R&D, but what you see on the outside are shiny-shoed sales people that walk into big brands and sell them ads that drive people into the store to buy products. They're very, I'd say, sophisticated about having great metrics for not only what's our average sales rep generate in new revenues per rep, per quarter after they've been at the company long enough to be what they call, a productive rep - someone that's been there probably 3 to 6 months. Then they'll even track it by cohort year so they'll figure out... were we better at some years than others at hiring certain reps? They'll also drill down into cohorts by source, so, did the reps we hired out of Yahoo! turn out to be better reps than the ones we hired out of Double Click? That, by the way, is super interesting. Just the fact that I know as a board member that they drill down to that level of detail to figure out... 
	Because what they've learned is, they've learned about all kinds of interesting attributes for people that end up really making it and thriving [00:24:00] at MaxPoint and learned that about people that don't. Another interesting attribute they learned about ad sales people, and this is kind of funny I think, is that they learned the hard way their first year is that hiring ad sales people that are available in the middle of the year is almost always bad. Because those superstars always stayed until the end of the year because they're crushing their plan, they're going to make quota and they want to stick around to be there for the winnings. What you want to do, what they learned the hard way - because, I think in 2011 they washed out of a lot sales people - they've learned you've got to start recruiting aggressively in September, get to know everybody well, pick your best candidates, try to close them in December/January, and on-board them in February for the rest of the year. 
	Then after that... Now their company's well-known enough and their brand is meaningful enough that they have a pattern now where they can bring people in almost year-round. But for 3-years they pretty much would start hiring aggressively in September, cut it off in January, and they would hire no other people after that because they had this really bad experience. They swear it's because the good people want to finish... the great people want to finish their year. Has anybody else had an experience like that?
Male:	That's really a trend in the banking industry now.
Len:	Is that right? Oh, right.
Male:	That's a huge deal for us. We wait for those yearly bonuses and payouts to happen. 
Len:	Yeah. It sounds horrible, "Gosh these people are so coin-operated." But you know what? People work really hard to make their plan.
Female:	Good sales people are.
Len:	Let me see if there are any... The last thing... Joe I'd say also does a nice job of previewing the next year in the January meeting. By the way, he will preview most of this stuff way before the board meeting, so he'll call people individually, like me, and say, "Here's the deck." It's just a good, a classic good communication strategy. You don't present in front of a full [00:26:00] board, especially if there's anything surprising, so Joe will send the draft, call me up say, "Hey, did you read it? Any questions?" Classic, good meeting and communication skills. In this particular one, again this in January of 2014, he went through an overall summary of the year, strategically expanding into what he calls "agency and shopper marketing". Heavy investments, so he added 56 people in engineering and analytics, which for them was a lot. Adding people on the finance team... this was the year before the company filed to go public, so we can see that coming and we had to do a pretty major upgrade of the finance team. 
	We'd had a solid VP of finance but we didn't have a take-it-public caliber CFO, which they hired at the end of that year. This slide shows you what Joe's key hires were for the executive team for the year. We didn't hire all these by the way. We did hire a really great CFO, we did hire a great director of HR, we have not yet hired a CMO, we did hire the last two. This was as of 15-months ago. Joe does a pretty good job of trying to tell us who are the key executive hires and then, instead of going into these in a lot of detail, what he would then tend to do, which my better companies do too, we would take the process of figuring out who are we looking for offline and Kerry's seen this because she's... Hakon and Todd, you guys have helped us... Most of my companies will, if they've got their act together they'll go write the job spec and then they'll run that by the board and then they'll often go through a process where they try to recruit without using a search firm, because start-up entrepreneurs bristle at the notion that you're going to spend what you're going to spend on that search firm. So do we, right? If we can avoid spending those kinds of dollars and we know someone in our network, then we'd rather do that. Then they'll usually keep the exec team, or the board, pretty [00:28:00] looped in on these hires. I was very involved in recruiting Brad. We did hire a search firm - we hired Schweichler - to recruit the CFO to Max Point. I was pretty involved in helping Joe write the spec because I'd been through that process before. I worked with great people like (Paul Biolet?) so I knew what a good CFO looked like. We will often try to help with the spec and then we'll help push the CEO to make the decision on hiring a firm if it's taking too long. Then we're usually involved in interviewing and then we're usually involved in helping structure... we don't structure the package but they'll usually run it by us. 
	Most of our CEOs... we don't demand, but we like it when they run executive comp by the board. We don't expect to be approving salaries and option plans for the whole company, but anyone that's a C-level executive, usually it's good process... Frankly, it's good for the CEO to have a checkpoint to check in with somebody else to make sure that the comp plan they're recommending makes sense.
I feel like I've gone super fast and a little bit rapid fire and kind of random but... Maybe I'll pause for a second to see what... Is this helpful?
Female:	Yeah. There's a lot recruiting in that deck. Even looking at the past slide, the 2014 highlights had four of the five bullets were directly related to recruiting.
Len:	Yeah and Joe really gets it. Of my CEOs, some are better at really understanding the importance... By the way, all of them understand the importance of people so without question, every one of my CEOs knows that we're not building cars, where what matters is that we have a plant with a smokestack and bearings and conveyor belts and stuff... The company is people, our ability to create product is people, our ability to sell it is people, it's all people. They all get that but some of them are much more systematic about how they think about [00:30:00] bringing in talent than others and Joe is one of the better ones I would say, in terms of... He was at Ebay... he had three... he was at four... then he was at 3Com and then he was at Ebay. He was at Ebay when they went from about $1B in revenue to $5B, so he watched them grow very quickly and had a sense for how much you have to plan ahead. 
	He and I are on the phone a lot about what I call the mitosis effect. If the company can go... If one person can manage six, roughly, then your companies goes through this mitosis where from one person to 36, you don't need more than one layer. You just need some people underneath you and then those people can manage the people underneath them and you're fine. When you multiply the six times six again, then it's... You multiple each of those six by another six, that phase of growth when you're growing from 30 employees to 200 or so requires a whole other layer of management and then... Joe's going to go through the next phase right now because he's at 350. He's now got C-level people, VP-level people, director-level people, and manager-level people, and people underneath those people. Most of our CEO's have never been through that before. They wait too long to realize that someone isn't scaling. They themselves might not be scaling. 
	They wait too long and then they're really nervous about becoming a big bureaucracy full of layers, which is a good bias to not want that, but on the other hand, Joe really has figured out that, "I've got to be thinking a couple years ahead. All my executive staff now, I need to be asking every day are they... am I doing [00:32:00] everything I can to make sure they're going to scale for where we're going to be in a year? Are they doing that at every layer?" That's a huge place where I think you all can help. Some of you may be more involved in recruiting than HR but I think helping your CEOs and all the leaders underneath them learn how to evaluate their people. Not just for the jobs they have right now, and not just for having more people under them, but the complexity of it. It's not about having a bigger job, it's having a more complex job. Kerry, you've done this a few times. I think Joe's especially good at trying to plan ahead that way. Not all of our CEOs are because most of them haven't been through it before.
Male:	Is there a way in the context of a board deck to show the board those different layers and how our ratios... what we've seen is the hiring slide update has planned and actual... those are just numbers. It doesn't tell you anything about the structure of the organization, or how layered the org chart is. Is there a ratio or a metric that can convey that quickly to you guys where you could use what you know to advise the CEO? Like you might want to start thinking about layering it some more?
Len:	Yeah, that's a great point. This particular deck doesn't have an org chart. Most of our CEOs will go through an org chart and if they're going to make some changes, or are thinking about it, they'll display that. A lot of them, I think, would be smart to walk us through the organization before they're thinking of any changes just to get our insights and input about it and get your insights and input about it, right? Part of this is addressing what I just talked about - is where is it just clear that people are going to out-scale themselves? Then the other classic problem that a lot of these companies have, as you guys know, is that not everybody that's a great individual contributor naturally scales into being a great leader or manager. It doesn't mean there's not an awesome place for them in the organization but... Yet, we've trained people (this is a topic for a blog post) we've trained people to grow in the [00:34:00] organization you need a bigger job with a bigger title and more people underneath you. That can be just a horrible mistake. 
	Some engineers are amazing architects and individual contributors and they may think that the best role for them is to lead and manage people but they a) may not be good at it and b) may not even like it. But if you train them that that's the only way to move up in the organization then that's an issue... Same thing with sales people. A lot of our companies will hire a great first sales person who really believes they can run and build a 50-person sales team, and sometimes they can, but that's a whole different set of skills. Working with a CEO so that they are realizing ahead of time, not just "how many people can my people manage?" That's a simple math exercise that any of us can do but, am I thinking about moving the parts around so that people scale... So that people scale without losing them. 
	That, I think, is the really tricky part, how do you take someone who's grown in their ability to manage people because they've been able to go from managing a 3-person team to 7... how do you keep that person if you know that you're going to grow to a 50 or a 100 person team? How do you keep that person, make them feel good that they will have a long-term career path, and will be able to keep growing, but hire over the top of them without them feeling like, "Gee, I thought Len was loyal to me. I worked really hard and now he's hiring Bob and I have to work for Bob and I like working for Len. I don't trust him anymore." How you guys coach your CEOs on how to navigate that I think is super important.
Female:	Do people have a lot of opportunity to coach your CEOs on that? Are you guys finding that? Are you having those conversations?
Male:	I would say I don't actively pursue having those conversations. Our CEO is pretty good about [00:36:00] coming and asking when he wants input before making a decision, but I also don't know how many decisions he's making that he didn't ask input on.
Len:	Yeah, I've got a couple more minutes.
Male:	Okay. What I think most about this deck is there's not a lot of stuff in it that I would overtly say is a negative.
Len:	These guys have been crushing it. That's the problem. I have some of those.
Male:	Certainly they are, but I'm asking ... There's always... how do you, I think you alluded to it earlier... how do you like to hear about "this is a problem"?
Len:	I won't try and pull up the deck... so Joe is really good about... We love bad news early. I will send you guys a blog post about...
Female:	I'm sorry, I have to leave but I just want to say thank you, this has been amazing, really helpful insights. Nice to meet you.
Female:	Thanks Stacey, good to see you.
Len:	I'll send this to you. This is old. It's 4-years old. I had different color hair. This is a pretty decent... if you just keep using your high school photograph, it works really well.
Male:	Then later it's easier to sneak out because they don't know who you are.
Len:	Exactly. I wrote this for Tech Crunch, I think it's okay. It's got my top 10 things you should do to work with your board. I'll send this to you guys but, I think... Let's see which one...
Female:	Is the audience for this entrepreneurs and CEOs? 
Len:	Yeah. I think there's something in here about bad news must travel early. We love, just like any relationship, if something's not going well we want to hear about it as early as possible. MaxPoint's had plenty of [00:38:00] rough periods, as has every one of our companies, but... Probably a lot of companies, most of mine, use this strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats, SWOT analysis, to frame how it's going. Joe will often do that and that's a great framework, a simple framework for explaining what's going well, what are the risks, what are we doing about it? What things aren't going as well? Martin, who you know... Martin has an incredibly detailed... it looks like that Consumer Reports thing with the little bubbles, it's three-quarters filled in, he does that for all the quadrants of the business. It's red-light, green-light, no-light, so that model works really well. That happened to be a good year for Max Point but most of our companies do a really good job of framing the strengths and weaknesses. What's going on, what's not.
Male:	What's the number one complaint the CEO's have about their recruiting functions? Other than not enough engineering talent?
Len:	Great question... I think most of our CEOs don't... I think the common complaint I often have is not being organized enough about going after candidates in a really aggressive way at the executive level. I'm smarting from this experience that I shared with Kerry for one of my companies that wasn't really ready to go to a search yet but they know they need to for an executive position. They hadn't written a job spec and they hadn't been organized about exactly what they were looking for. They were pretty new at hiring this kind of a person. They'd never really done it at any of their careers. And a candidate came out of nowhere, that was a free agent, a unicorn candidate, and we didn't get him. [00:40:00] Another company did and we were talking about it a couple nights ago - we didn't out our best foot forward, we didn't have a tight spec so the candidate had a lot of questions about the role and whether it was really what they wanted. 
	I don't think we recruited as well... This is maybe less a critique of the recruiting team. I think sometimes recruiting teams need to make sure our CEOs really know how to sell. I think one of the skills that you have to have at a start-up is you've got to be able to persuade people to leave these incredibly safe, well-paying positions to come join the circus. It's hard to get people to do that. I think sometimes I'll see us settle for candidates where I think, "Boy we kind of settled for a B+ there." I hate saying that, but you know when the candidate that you really wanted but couldn't get passes and you end up taking a person that's... Then you can say "oh my company's never done that". Okay, well good for you, it sounds like you've got an amazing company.
Group:	[Laughter]
Len:	I have a couple companies where I think we took a really strong B+ candidate instead of the A and I think we could have put our foot forward better in terms of maybe comp, or maybe the way we went about courting them.
Male:	Do you have any thoughts on how to combat that? I find that often recruiting is sitting behind the scenes saying, "Hey guys, we need to pull this together, this is how we need to approach it." But there's a little bit of a resistance at the executive level, feeling like, "Well this is an executive level candidate. I know them through some other channel. I'm just going to kind of do it my way, not follow the structure."
Len:	I think it's great, I think part of the role you can play is that pressure-relief valve. I think if this particular company that lost this candidate I mentioned had had a person that was... We had a very effective... remember Karen Schlumer at Real? ...we had an in-house recruiter. She was [00:42:00] awesome and she... Candidates would tell her stuff they wouldn't tell me or tell Rob or tell David. I think going to your CEO and saying, "Look, I can be the consigliere behind the scenes," and they know you're there to try and recruit them so they know you're biased too, but it can be hard to tell the person you would go work for "no" or tell them what the real issue is or maybe it's something that you're uncomfortable with... Anyway, I think persuading them, "Look, I can be a second set of eyes and maybe a back channel for the real reasons that a person's not getting there..." I think it's super helpful if you get the right person.
I have to hop.
Female:	Len, thank you.
